---
layout: page
title:  "Animating with SVG"
date:   2018-05-12 01:01:01 -0600
categories: SVG
---
<style>
  .monster {
    margin: 0 auto;
    width: 70px;
    height: 94px;
    background: url('/assets/img/bluemansprite.png') left center;
    animation: play 0.8s steps(6) infinite;
  }
  @keyframes play {
   100% { background-position: -429px; }
}
</style>


<div class="monster">
</div>

Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML-based vector image format for two dimensional graphics with support for interactivity and animation.

When choosing to use SVG it is wise to understand the pros and cons compared to using Portable Network Graphics (PNG) or Graphics Interchange Format (GIF). SVG format has many advantages over other image formats for the web. It is vector-based, compact, and easily editable thanks to its XML syntax.

- SVG's power comes from its small size. SVG image elements take up much less space than their counterparts.
- Let's not forget about flexibility. With CSS, developers are able to quickly change the graphics settings on the site, such as background color or the position of the logo on a page by editing the file in any text editor (my favorite text editor is Atom).
- Scalability is also a huge advtange of using SVG. Not only is it possible to view the content of a SVG file in any browser (yes, even IE), SVG images do not lose quality even when it is enlarged. It is safe to use SVG images with Retina display.

SVG is mainly used for creating icons for websites. Images can be stretched and compressed without loss in quality in turn preserving its high pixel density without signs of blurriness.

 <link href='//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Signika+Negative:300,400' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'>
